well the Palestinian militant group
Hamas says it has chosen its top
military commander in Gaza as its new
political leader y Sina replaces former
political leader isma Haner who was
killed last week in Iran Sina is the man
Israel believes was behind the October
7th Terror attacks it's been pursuing
him ever since and has vowed to kill
him let's go straight to Jerusalem where
DW tanyaa is following this story for us
T what's being made of this announcement
where you
are well I think it shows that Hamas is
capable of rather swiftly uh choosing a
new leader that they have done this
throughout the years especially after
now these targeted killings and uh just
like you know what happened to is hania
in tan uh last week uh first and
foremost it's Senor that this will move
uh the power back to Gaza to the leaders
ship in Gaza now Hamas has a leadership
that is divided in the occupied West
Bank in Gaza and in uh and abroad uh and
this will uh consolidate uh the power
between uh the military wing and the
political Wing under Yahya Sina who is
since October 7 since uh the terror
attacks on October 7 he's considered one
of the masterminds of these attacks and
of of course the war now in Gaza he is
in hiding uh so so it will consol
consolidate the power uh under this one
person uh it's also a defying Step At
least at scene like this here in Israel
uh he is on Israel's Hit List he is
considered as I said as The Mastermind
of the attacks from October 7 and we
already heard from the IDF spokes person
but also from the uh Israel's foreign
minister cuts that Israel should swiftly
eliminate sinir so they have been trying
uh to to catch him but haven't found him
yet there in
Gaza so what does the appointment then
mean for a a ceasefire any possible
ceasefire and hostage
negotiations well I think it's not yet
clear I mean uh it seems that you know
they also um conflicting statements
what's the state of these negotiations
right now especially now that um after
the uh targeted killings in Beirut and
Teran and the region is waiting
for a retaliation from uh Iran and
Hezbollah but um what has been the case
for now is that the leadership outside
isma hania was basically leading those
negotiations but he had to consult and
uh the decision making was ma made
together with Yahya Sina so this will be
now solely in the hands of Yahya Sina at
least that is what's being expected
there's also a small detail will be very
difficult as he is in hiding you to to
pass on those messages mik may be making
these uh the this process a bit more
complicated as well but as I said again
the situation right now everybody's
waiting for retaliation uh by Hezbollah
and by Iran and it's unclear where those
talks uh on releasing the hostages but
also on a ceasefire that's really
important for the people in Gaza where
they will be going as the region here is
on edge DW is ten cler reporting from
Jerusalem thank you